---
layout: post
title: Long time coming, but Bergmann signs with Polygram
joomla_id: 62
joomla_url: Long time coming, but Bergmann signs with Polygram
date: 2008-05-27 00:09:39.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0"><span style="font-family: 'book antiqua', palatino">The Vancouver Sun / Saturday, June 8, 1991 / by Greg Potter<br /><br />IT'S BEEN a long time comin', but local singer/songwriter/guitarist and all 'round swell guy Art Bergmann has finally tied the knot with a major label, the blushing corporate bride being Polygram.<br /><br />Negotiations in Toronto &quot;went pretty quick&quot; last week, says Bergmann, who notes that manager Sam Feldman &quot;did all the talkin'. I didn't have to do a thing.&quot;<br /><br />Bergmann, who released two highly acclaimed albums, Crawl With Me and Sexual Roulette, for the ill-fated Canadian label Duke Street, says that after all these years (remember the Schmorgs, Young Canadians, Los Popularos, etc.?), &quot;it feels pretty good - but it's kinda late, isn't it guys?&quot;<br /><br />With his third album (working title: The Moist, Dark Thing Is Beautiful) all but completed, he returns to Toronto this coming week to finish mixing the tracks with producer Chris Wardman (who likewise produced Sexual Roulette). A rough mix of the album confirms that Bergmann's penchant for striking melodies, inventive song structures and thoughtful wordplay remains intact.<br /><br />Longtime fans will recognize a rework of God's Little Gift from Poisoned, his 1984 solo cassette debut. And if cuts such as Marianne Faithful and Faithlessly Yours don't become chart-topping hit singles, radio programmers the world over should have their kneecaps smashed. The album is due out late in July.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Art's acting debut in Bruce (Roadkill) MacDonald's hilariously twisted Highway 61 should hit Vancouver for the Film Festival in September. Bergmann plays a deranged, chicken-hunting, frozen-yogurt-machine-owning rock god who resides in a Memphis mansion with his catatonic girlfriend.<br /></span></span>
