---
layout: post
title: Bergmann getting back to his gigging
joomla_id: 65
joomla_url: Bergmann getting back to his gigging
date: 2008-05-27 00:13:21.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0"><span style="font-family: 'book antiqua', palatino">The Toronto Star / Thursday, October 14, 1993 / by Jennie Punter <br /><br />Besides splintering into countless subgenres and then evolving into something palatable to the masses, the punk rock movement kick-started a bunch of great literate songwriters at the dawn of the '80s.<br /><br />In Canada, Vancouver's Art Bergmann is often hailed as our &quot;punk&quot; legend, although the noises he makes are far too eclectic to slap on such a simple label.<br /><br />Lately, the songwriter has been getting his act together since being dropped by his label last year.<br /><br />Art Bergmann, his third album, came out in late '91, got some great reviews and some good air play. But sales didn't match expectations and Bergmann found himself living &quot;a life of bondage in Vancouver&quot; with no tour support.<br /><br />&quot;I got signed by these companies, then I'd hear things like, sorry you can't tour, sorry the time isn't right,&quot; says Bergmann, in town to play some dates with his new live band, including Friday-Saturday gigs with Lowest Of The Low at Lee's Palace.<br /><br />&quot;You think things will happen when you sign to a major label, but the opposite happens. Hopefully, that's over now. It's a huge relief for me.<br /><br />&quot;Maybe it's my own fault, I don't know. Things happen for a reason, I suppose.<br /><br />&quot;I just look at artists I admire, they never made it until they were dead . . . or 50.&quot;<br /><br />But Bergmann isn't waiting around for that.<br /><br />&quot;I've got a really hot band together and we've been playing around town,&quot; he says.<br /><br />&quot;I wrote a couple albums worth of material and threw them away. This has all happened since May, because before that I wasn't doing anything. I was sitting around because I really didn't know what to do. I mean, I didn't want to make any more demos, or get another Canadian record deal.&quot;<br /><br />For his current gigs, the live band - which includes members of Vancouver's Dead Surf Kiss and Stigmata - is sticking to Bergmann's catalogue.<br /><br />&quot;We haven't managed to learn any new stuff,&quot; says Bergmann, &quot;mostly because what I want to do with the songs in the studio is kind of complicated.&quot;<br /><br />Besides performing material from the last album - and Crawl With Me and Sexual Roulette (both on Duke Street) - Bergmann is also cranking out songs that were never released.<br /><br />&quot;There's a bunch of great tapes I own . . . stuff before Duke Street that I recorded with (producer) Bob Rock and Paul Hyde.<br /><br />&quot;It was a band called Poisoned at the time. We dropped the name because of that other horrible band.&quot;<br /><br />Bergmann plans to hit the studio before Christmas, armed with a guitar case full of paper he's been scrawling ideas on.<br /><br />&quot;I actually started my musical life on piano, but I don't use any instrument at all when I'm writing. The new stuff I'm writing now is just on pieces of paper, and I'm putting down on paper how I think things should be approached in the studio.<br /><br />&quot;There are so many guitar bands now, guitar bands that detune on purpose, so that's unfashionable. So what am I going to do? Maybe just go in there and walk on the guitar.&quot;<br /></span></span>
