---
layout: post
title: Bergmann finds straightforward venom in the dregs
joomla_id: 58
joomla_category_id: 29
joomla_section_id: 4
joomla_url: Bergmann finds straightforward venom in the dregs
date: 2008-05-27 00:03:24.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0">The Gazette (Montreal) / Saturday, April 28, 1990 / by Mark Lepage<br /><br />ART BERGMANN<br /><br />Sexual Roulette<br /><br />Duke Street<br /><br />There's a drunkard, a wife-beater or a psycho on every big-city street, and Vancouver's Art Bergmann writes and sings as if he's met them all - and liked them.<br /><br />Bergmann only sounds like a certifiable rock 'n' roll Section Eight. Sexual Roulette, his second album, is a punishing, scabrous journey through the dregs of humanity. It also happens to rock with a fearsome intensity.<br /><br />Sexual Roulette is Barfly committed to vinyl, a cautionary tale for the '90s that celebrates its own ugliness. Bergmann picks at emotional and psychic scabs with a neurotic's obsessive glee, alternately wallowing, raging and howling at the moon.<br /><br />He starts with a savaging of rock 'n' roll itself in Bound For Vegas. Set to brutal music, the lyric revels in the seamy fat-Elvis underside of rock careerism, all the while pounding the message home with straightforward venom: &quot;I'm a never was / trying to be a has-been.&quot;<br /><br />The catalogue of grotesqueries includes AIDS, madness, suicide, assault, racism and drug addiction. But the record is worthwhile for Bergmann's guitar alone. It's an unrepentant grunge-machine fused from the shards of every great punk 'n' roll band of the last 20 years, back to the Stooges and the Velvet Underground.<br /><br />Through it all, through the churning riffs in Bar of Pain, the primal scream of the title track, and the black humor of The Hospital Song (&quot;Maybe later / we'll get together / and have a relapse&quot;), Bergmann sounds apocalyptically angry.<br /><br />&quot;I'd rather straddle / this razorblade / than sit on that fence,&quot; he asserts in the grinding Gambol. Bergmann is out on a precarious limb, notably in the merciless Dirge No. 1, but he sings and plays as though his life were at stake.<br /></span>
