---
layout: post
title: Dark sentiments run through singer Art Bergmann's music
joomla_id: 71
joomla_url: Dark sentiments run through singer Art Bergmann's music
date: 2008-05-27 00:23:08.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0"><span style="font-family: 'book antiqua', palatino">The Kitchener-Waterloo Record / Tuesday, April 8, 1997<br />by Nick Krewen<br /><br />If Art Bergmann ever becomes prime minister, his first piece of legislation would undoubtedly enjoy unprecedented public support.<br /><br />&quot;I'd declare a statutory holiday,&quot; says the veteran Vancouver singer and songwriter. &quot;It would loosen up everyone and we'd communicate better. Then it would be time to set all the budgets. People would actually get jobs that they're happy with.&quot;<br /><br />Obviously Bergmann's party line is a different remedy from what political leaders such as Mike Harris and Jean Chretien envision for this country, but the former singer and co-founder of the punk rock group Young Canadians feels a little levity could go a long way.<br /><br />After all, he suggests, Canadians have a dark sense of humor. And it's a type of humor you'll find on all four of his rugged albums, including 1995's brilliant What Fresh Hell Is This?<br /><br />&quot;I call it realism,&quot; says Bergmann, who performs solo at Mrs. Robinson's Wednesday night.<br /><br />&quot;Canadians have a black sense of humor. You know how Iggy Pop and Lou Reed often have the blackest kind of lyrics? It's the stuff of which novels are made.&quot;<br /><br />Caustic wit<br /><br />Dark sentiments run deep in Bergmann's music, but his slurry vocals and caustic wit always offer an unexpected detour to the truth. The song Sexual Roulette's message as an anti-AIDS theme is delivered with the surprising proclamation &quot;This is my body/I'm doing time/Are you giving me something/I'll get in five years time.&quot;<br /><br />On Buried Alive, Bergmann equates a breakdown with Humpty Dumpty imagery: &quot;All the King's horses/All the Queen's men/Couldn't put me back together again.&quot;<br /><br />Sometimes poignant, sometimes a satirical menace, Bergmann is a Canadian original: a surreal Stompin' Tom Connors. It's a comparison of which Bergmann approves.<br /><br />&quot;Stompin' Tom Connors -- he's a great songwriter, storyteller. I find that very flattering,&quot; says Bergmann, who tells his interviewer that he's &quot;449&quot; years old.<br /><br />&quot;I think that's what I'm trying to do with these solo shows. I admire great old country artists like Johnny Cash -- that's what I'm trying to get towards with the acoustic thing. It's not a bunch of rock 'n' roll songs.&quot;<br /><br />Bergmann is hoping to take the intimacy of the live experience with him into the studio shortly to release an independent solo acoustic album. He says a fullblown band album -- hopefully on another major label -- will follow before year's end.<br /><br />If he finds a label -- and he reassures that there have been some talks -- then Bergmann will have moved to his fourth label in five albums. There are no guarantees. Even winning a Juno for Most Promising Male Vocalist for What Fresh Hell Is This? didn't prevent Sony Music Canada from dropping him.<br /><br />&quot;I wish I had a long-term commitment,&quot; laments Bergmann. &quot;Every time I switched companies, my record would be quietly shelved and that's that. We'd talk for a few months, and then they'd lose interest.&quot;<br /><br />Enfant terrible<br /><br />An admitted drinking problem also played havoc with his efforts to get ahead, earning him a reputation as an enfant terrible. Although he's been sober for a few years, Bergmann resigns himself to frustration with his prior skeletons.<br /><br />&quot;I've kind of realized I'm stuck with it,&quot; Bergmann sighs. &quot;Although I know much more terrible infants than myself.&quot;<br /><br />He also denies that alcohol enhanced his creativity, although he freely admits &quot;I got a lot of great songs from hangovers.&quot;<br /><br />However, that's all behind him. Art Bergmann says there's only one thing he's concerned about these days: building a healthy career.<br /><br />&quot;I just want to raise my profile, raise the stakes and go forward.&quot;<br /><br />Art Bergmann<br /><br />Where: Mrs. Robinson's<br /><br />When: Wednesday<br /><br />Tickets: $5<br /></span></span>
