---
layout: post
title: Gimme a break
joomla_id: 68
joomla_url: Gimme a break
date: 2008-05-27 00:19:19.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0"><span style="font-family: 'book antiqua', palatino">The Province / Sunday, November 3, 1996 / by Mike Roberts<br /><br />He's been called an enigma and a genius, arrogant and unreliable. He's been spotted in soup lines and dumpsters; holding court in the classiest lounges and most exclusive music-awards parties.<br /><br />And he's had more record labels than I've had hot dinners.<br /><br />Bottom line: Vancouver's Art Bergmann writes some wickedly intelligent tunes and when he's on fire up on that stage, boy, does he burn.<br /><br />Twice as brightly, for half as long; or at both ends? Pick your cliche, it's sure to apply to the smash-and-crash musical career of this local legend.<br /><br />I ran into the 43-year-old tunesmith at Roughcuts &amp; Soulrippers, a weekly jam session he's hosting at The Gate (1176 Granville St.) Monday nights. A strange gig for the solo-minded Bergmann, but a gig just the same. Rent's rent, he'd say.<br /><br />Bergmann's career has been hard to follow. There were the early punk outfits -- The Shmorgs, the K-Tels, The Young Canadians -- followed by the dodgy solo career. Independents. Polygram. Sony. An up-and-down roller coaster of brilliance and excess that has left him, for the moment, without a record label and in serious need of a capital infusion.<br /><br />Enter Toronto's TMP (The Music Publisher) and something that smells a little off to me.<br /><br />TMP is a publishing and production outfit that &quot;develops'' Canadian musical talent (Jane Siberry and Murray McLauchlan are on its roster). It entered into negotiations with Bergmann last month for the rights to his back catalogue.<br /><br />&quot;Suffice to say, (TMP prez Frank Davies) offered me a $1,000,'' says Bergmann, barely concealing his disgust with the paltry bid for a 135-song back catalogue.<br /><br />&quot;I didn't even dignify them with a response.''<br /><br />A case of taking advantage of a guy when he's down? Frank Davies doesn't think so.<br /><br />&quot;He was looking for some help personally and all of that, financially and everything, and we thought we may be able to help. It was just a pity it never came to pass,'' says Davies from Toronto.<br /><br />&quot;Unfortunately he didn't own the rights he thought he did. Which was very disappointing, actually, to us and I think to him, too.''<br /><br />Davies says the price an artist's publishing rights commands depends on name value and success level.<br /><br />A thousand bucks for Bergmann? I'm sorry.<br /><br />&quot;I really wouldn't want to . . . get into detail on that 'cause that really would be Art's sort of private business and I wouldn't like to do that,'' says Davies of the deal's price tag.<br /><br />The deal is off the table so whatever the details were, they've been lost to the scrap heap of Bergmann's failed deals. Still, when a guy like Art tells you he's been offered a $1,000 carrot stump from some TO outfit, you don't know whether to feel outraged, or merely sad.<br /></span></span>
