---
layout: post
title: Art Bergmann's funny Juno joke
joomla_id: 53
joomla_category_id: 28
joomla_section_id: 4
joomla_url: Art Bergmann's funny Juno joke
date: 2008-05-26 22:25:20.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0">The Toronto Star / Friday, March 10, 1989 / by Craig MacInnis <br /><br />In case you're wondering, Art Bergmann hasn't bothered to prepare an acceptance speech.<br /><br />The Vancouver punk veteran, who performs at Lee's Palace Monday and Tuesday, is nominated for a Juno as Most Promising Male Vocalist (and another for his video to &quot;Our Little Secret&quot;).<br /><br />This is rich. In a category whose nominees include fresh-scrubbed mainstream stars like Jeff Healey and Colin James, Bergmann has about as much chance as a punk at prep school.<br /><br />&quot;It's pretty funny,&quot; he laughs drily from his Winnebago, parked somewhere between here and Winnipeg. &quot;I liked (Pursuit Of Happiness singer) Moe Berg's comment on the Junos: 'If I was into awards, I'd be a curler.' &quot;<br /><br />Then again: &quot;I like the word 'Promising' because it keeps you young...&quot;<br /><br />Indeed, Bergmann has been showing promise for more than a decade as the frontman for various West Coast bands including Los Popularos, Young Canadians and Poisoned.<br /><br />His debut solo album, Crawl With Me, was his first stab at semi-legitimacy, although it retains the darkness and pessimism one would expect from an inveterate cynic.<br /><br />And, like most cynics, he's only too happy to mingle with the hoi polloi and trade recipes with the Canadian Establishment. That's why he'll force himself into a tuxedo and take his rightful place at the Junos Sunday night at O'Keefe Centre.<br /><br />&quot;I wouldn't miss it for the world,&quot; he gushes. &quot;If I'm lucky, I may even get to meet (Midday co-host) Valerie Pringle. She's really perky. We're all big fans of hers.&quot;<br /><br />Bergmann, meanwhile, can't help but notice that his Juno nominations have upped his desirability with the mainstream media, which have normally gone out of their way to ignore him.<br /><br />&quot;It's so weird. I was just in Winnipeg and all these people are so friendly now - radio stations that used to hang up when I called . . .&quot;<br /></span>
