---
title: damned but never forgotten
article_author: 
article_publication: 
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0"><span style="font-family: 'book antiqua', palatino">The Hamilton Spectator / Thursday, April 5, 2001 / by Glen Nott<br /><br />Art imitates life. Life imitates art. If this was a competition, Art would win.<br /><br />Art Bergmann, that is.<br /><br />Assembled in one storied room in downtown Hamilton Saturday night will be, to borrow a Johnny Cash line, the mud, blood and beer of Canadian rock 'n' roll.<br /><br />This is a group that can count scars on scars -- drugs, disease, Daniels (Jack), debauchery -- but none can count higher than the 46-year-old Bergmann.<br /><br />Not that he'd want to. Bergmann's not really a numbers person. But here are some interesting ones:<br /><br />1954: Born in British Columbia to Mennonite parents. Grew up in Surrey.<br /><br />1977-'84: With bands The Schmorgs, the K-Tels, The Young Canadians, Los Popularos and Poisoned, helps create the West Coast punk scene.<br /><br />1984: Bergmann's first solo album, Crawl With Me, produced by John Cale of The Velvet Underground, is released and goes gold in sales in Canada.<br /><br />1989: Juno award (yep, they caught up) for most promising male vocalist for his work on the legendary album Sexual Roulette. The single is Faithlessly Yours.<br /><br />1990: Plays role of burned out, gun toting rock god in Bruce McDonald's stellar road film Highway 61.<br /><br />1993: Kicks heroin addiction, an experience that translates into another album, 1995's What Fresh Hell Is This?, a phrase borrowed from Dorothy Parker.<br /><br />1997: Moves to Toronto.<br /><br />April 4, 2001: Gets a day off from his job at Rancho Relaxo, a happening restaurant and nightclub in Toronto.<br /><br />Bergmann and his band don't play out often, which makes this show that much more special.<br /><br />&quot;I played a show with Teenage Head in Estevan, Saskatchewan in the '80s,&quot; he said. &quot;And I really love Tom (Wilson's) stuff.&quot;<br /><br />Like all the best gutter-dwelling music giants -- the Paul Westerbergs, Iggy Pops, Tom Waits -- Bergmann keeps making music that is fresh and original, and far from the grasp of mainstream.<br /><br />&quot;I've never been stuck in the spiky hair days,&quot; he says. &quot;I say play four chords, even five. People always fault me for my complex arrangements, but I get bored.&quot;<br /><br />He listens to radio, but doesn't often like what he hears.<br /><br />&quot;I listen to 102 (The Edge), but most of the music sounds the same. There's no humour, and there's got to be humour.<br /><br />&quot;Dark humour, though.&quot;<br /><br />There will be plenty of laughs Saturday, not to mention some remarkable history on display. Gord Lewis, Steve Mahon and Jack Pedler will serve as a sort of house band.<br /><br />Wilson and Tim Gibbons will sit in with them for some Florida Razors and Shakers material. Later on, the Head will play with singer Frankie Venom front and centre.<br /><br />Lewis has had the lads together for some practices, and things have gone swimmingly.<br /><br />&quot;I'm getting calls from Detroit and Buffalo about this one. It's basically sold out,&quot; said Corktown booking agent Dan Quinlan. &quot;Somehow the word got out. It's the who's who and it's pretty neat.&quot;<br /><br />And somewhere weaved into this mix will be the night's emcee, Toronto rock pioneer Nash The Slash. Awesome.<br /><br />The Corktown Tavern -- where only the furniture is plastic.<br /><br />He has a gig in Hamilton, then Toronto, and then another one hundreds of miles north of Calgary.<br /><br />Yes, Texas born bluesman Sonny Rhodes, safe and plump from a winter away from the road, is back and criss-crossing the world in the name of, well, travellin' and playin' and singin'.<br /><br />Rhodes, a legend of the pedal steel guitar sound and its unlikely marriage with the blues, plays the Hudson (233 King Street E.,) tomorrow night. Cover for the show is $15.<br /><br />Tonight at the Hudson, it's One Step Beyond. Jazz guitarist Jake Langley is in on Saturday night. Cover for those shows is $5.<br /><br />Sonic Unyon recording artists Sianspheric play Raven (69 Augusta Street at John Street) tomorrow night, and will soon be releasing a new album, titled The Sound of the Colour of the Sun. Expect it in June.<br /><br />On Saturday night at Raven, Hamilton's FLUX A.D. and Dale Morningstar of The Dinner is Ruined combine for the best double bill of the weekend in these parts.<br /><br />Morningstar, incidentally, had a big hand in Gord Downie's recent trip down poetry lane, the album and book Coke Machine Glow.<br /><br />Downie, of course, is the dancing guy with the funny thing in his ear for The Tragically Hip.<br /><br />Richard Baxter is a drummer. Boy, is he ever.<br /><br />The Quebec musician has made an album, Baxter's Drum World, which features his world-record 115-piece drum kit.<br /><br />The album is all drums. There are African tribal beats and a bongo duel, and the final two cuts are the the cat's whiskers for drum solo enthusiasts -- The Jazz Ghost of Buddy is a five-minute, 20 second solo on a four piece kit, while Percussion &quot;Krock&quot; Soup is almost 18 minutes of solo work on the full kit. <br /><br />Need to know<br /><br />What: Damned But Never Forgotten, a massive rock 'n' roll review<br /><br />Who: Teenage Head (Gord Lewis, Frank Venom, Steve Mahon, Jack Pedler), Art Bergmann and Band, Tom Wilson, Tim Gibbons, Nash The Slash (emcee), Dave Byngham, Buckshot Bebee &amp; The Sapphire Fly Band, and Spoiled Rotten<br /><br />When: Saturday, April 7. Doors open at 9 p.m.<br /><br />Where: Corktown Tavern, 175 Young Street, downtown Hamilton<br /><br />Tickets: $10 in advance at Dr. Disc, Rave Records and the club, or $13 at the door.</span></span>
