---
layout: post
title: CD review - LOST ART BERGMANN
joomla_id: 273
joomla_category_id: 30
joomla_section_id: 4
joomla_url: CD review - LOST ART BERGMANN
date: 2009-06-03 21:54:52.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0">The Big Takeover / April 25, 2009 / by Michael Toland <br />
<br />
In some circles, ART BERGMANN is a legend. In the early 80s, the British Columbian songwriter led the YOUNG CANADIANS, one of the leading lights of the Vancouver punk scene. He then fronted POISONED, sort of Canada&rsquo;s answer to the REPLACEMENTS (indeed, Bergmann has been referred to as the Canadian PAUL WESTERBERG), before embarking on a fruitful if ill-fated solo career. Despite (or maybe because of) a handful of records of dark lyrics, ragged vocals and untamed guitar wrangling, Bergmann never got far, with only a couple of minor Canuck hits to show for his hard work. (Truthfully, his bad habits didn&rsquo;t help.) He released his last studio album in the late 90s and has been retired ever since, stymied by arthritis and lack of interest. (Note: check his website for the full story.) Except for a Young Canadians comp on the Sudden Death label, his catalog has fallen out of print, with his acknowledged masterpiece Sexual Roulette being damn near impossible to find.<br />
<br />
In 1988, Bergmann released his debut solo record Crawl With Me, produced by JOHN CALE for the MCA-affiliated Duke Street Records. The combination seemed like a good idea at the time &ndash; Bergmann&rsquo;s tales of murderers, junkies and losers definitely show a LOU REED influence, and Cale knows how to bring out the atmosphere of the dark side. Strangely, though, Cale opted instead to nudge Bergmann&rsquo;s music toward the mainstream, smoothing out many of the songs&rsquo; musical edge (though not touching the lyrical outlook). It&rsquo;s unclear what Cale&rsquo;s motive was &ndash; maybe he worked under a record company edict to make Bergmann into the next TOM COCHRANE, or maybe he just didn&rsquo;t care. Regardless, Bergmann was displeased with the results, believing that Cale had ripped the guts out of his music.<br />
<br />
Lost Art Bergmann attempts to redress Bergmann&rsquo;s dissatisfaction with Crawl With Me. Recorded with Poisoned in 1986 and featuring production assistance from PAUL HYDE and BOB ROCK of the PAYOLA$, these tracks comprise the demo that got Bergmann his record deal, presented as its creator intended.<br />
<br />
Seven of these songs were re-recorded for Crawl, and it&rsquo;s interesting to note that the arrangements the same. Clearly, Bergmann knew exactly how he wanted the songs to sound, even using the same musicians on both albums. The rockers &ldquo;Inside Your Love,&rdquo; &ldquo;Final Clich&eacute;&rdquo; and &ldquo;Ill Repute&rdquo; rage as they were meant to, finally breathing fire. The midtempo cuts &ldquo;Runaway Train&rdquo; and &ldquo;Our Little Secret&rdquo; (the single from Crawl, despite its unflinching look at incest) benefit mightily from the directness they&rsquo;re given here. &ldquo;Junkie Don&rsquo;t Care,&rdquo; Bergmann&rsquo;s smack-sick anthem, is damn near apocalyptic, stripped of any attempt to make it listener-friendly beyond its own hooks. The version of the familial murder powerhouse &ldquo;My Empty House&rdquo; is strong on Crawl (Cale knew enough to leave that one alone, apparently), but here benefits from a more crazed vocal and a solo that sounds like a controlled atomic explosion. The three songs that didn&rsquo;t reappear later are excellent &ndash; &ldquo;Black Heart,&rdquo; &ldquo;Who Will Ever Know&rdquo; and &ldquo;To Tell the Truth&rdquo; display all the grit, melody and soul of Bergmann&rsquo;s best work.<br />
<br />
Another notable thing about this collection is that these songs don&rsquo;t sound like demos. It&rsquo;s unclear whether the mix is Rock&rsquo;s original, or a more recent re-do, but either way these tracks sound as bright and clear as any &ldquo;real&rdquo; record. Of course, there&rsquo;s a dated quality inherent in the time period &ndash; the guitar tones and keyboard sounds immediately mark these recordings as being from the mid-80s. But ultimately these cuts&rsquo; quality comes down to the songs and the performances, and in those respects, Lost Art Bergmann is a triumph. And a good thing, too, because unless some enterprising music industry fan decides Bergmann&rsquo;s records deserve saving, this is likely the only example of his distinctive vision neophytes are likely to hear.</span><br />
<br />
<a href="http://www.bigtakeover.com" target="_self">www.bigtakeover.com</a> <br />
<br />
