---
layout: post
title: Bergmann's Art
joomla_id: 52
joomla_category_id: 28
joomla_section_id: 4
joomla_url: Bergmann's Art
date: 2008-05-26 22:24:12.000000000 +00:00
---
<span style="color: #c0c0c0">The Toronto Star / Friday, September 2, 1988 / by Craig MacInnis <br /><br />&quot;I'm in Regina,&quot; reports Art Bergmann. &quot;The town Canada forgot.<br /><br />&quot;I don't know. I think it's the murder capital of Western Canada. There's something deeply ingrained that's wrong here . . .&quot;<br /><br />The Prairies Have Eyes? Death In The Dust Bowl? Saskatchewan Zombies? Only Bergmann knows for sure, and he's not telling. And why should he?<br /><br />A little paranoia can be a good thing. It fuels the singer's mordant wit and it flows through his songs like blood through a spring-fed stream.<br /><br />A wily old veteran of Vancouver's post-punk scene - including stints with such brilliant bands as Los Popularos, Young Canadians and Poisoned - Bergmann recently went semi-legit when he signed a deal with Toronto independent, Duke Street Records.<br /><br />The resulting album, Crawl With Me, is a quiet and disturbing masterpiece, blending conventional rock constructs with quietly desperate lyrics that chip away a veneer of normalcy to reveal a world of rot, corruption and no hope.<br /><br />&quot;Would Jackson Browne like this record?&quot; he asks himself. &quot;I have no idea. I would hope so.<br /><br />&quot;We seem to attract a weird assortment of people. I can get along with hookers, bikers, ministers, lawyers . . .<br /><br />&quot;I would think there's something in (the songs) that appeals to everyone. Death.&quot;<br /><br />Lest this sound too morose for your tastes in pop music, understand that Bergmann isn't near as moribund as his self-analysis would suggest.<br /><br />Rollicking along at a breakneck pace, songs from Crawl With Me might actually seem upbeat if one weren't aware of the problematic subject matter. In &quot;Final Cliche&quot; it's the death of an overburdened middle-class son; in &quot;Empty House&quot; it's the ugly, hidden side of domestic bliss. In a deep, looming voice, he croons: &quot;Won't you come home/ To my empty house/ I'm all alone/ Except for my former spouse . . .&quot;<br /><br />Produced by former Velvet Undergrounder John Cale - who also quarterbacked debut sessions for Squeeze, Patti Smith and The Stooges - Crawl With Me is Bergmann's &quot;cleanest&quot; effort to date. For one thing, you can actually make out the lyrics, verboten where Bergmann comes from.<br /><br />&quot;I like it . . . in hindsight, I like it,&quot; he says. &quot;But at first I was shocked, to tell you the truth. It was so clear!&quot;<br /><br />During recording sessions at Toronto's Manta Studios, Bergmann didn't have much time to chat with Cale, whose own music had a fairly big influence on the Vancouverite.<br /><br />&quot;He had some great stories to tell about Patti Smith having great punch-ups in the control room, but we only had two weeks to do it, so we basically went in and stared each other down.&quot;<br /><br />Bergmann and his band - bassist Ray Fulber, drummer Taylor Nelson Little and singer-keyboardist Susann Richter - will appear Wednesday at Lee's Palace and will open a week from today for 54-40 at the Concert Hall.<br /><br />It's one of the first cross-country tours, he admits, that hasn't been a complete disaster - and part of the credit must go to Duke Street.<br /><br />&quot;A lot of those independent tours, you're out there spinning your wheels, you have no backing, it's absolutely hopeless.<br /><br />&quot;But (Duke St.) has given us a full commitment for at least three albums. If the first one doesn't sell, they're not going to throw you on a shelf and just write you off.<br /><br />&quot;They treat me like a juvenile delinquent sometime, but it's been pretty good.&quot;<br /><br />It's been good onstage, too: &quot;There's only been one klunker and that was the first show in Calgary. By the time we get to Toronto, we should be smoking.&quot;<br /></span>
